Coding with Chrome - i18n translation
======================================

Adding additional language support
-----------------------------------

### Create a language folder

If your language is currently not supported, create a new folder under
`locales/[language code]/`.

For the language code, please use the ISO 639-3 definitions.
Example: `locales/deu/`

#### Add the language identifier file

After creating the folder, please make sure to add the identifier file.
`locales/[language code]/_[language code].js` for e.g.
`locales/deu/_deu.js`.

### Add the language code to the supportedUserLanguage

Add the new language code to the supported user language in the file
`src/locales/supported.js` like:

```diff
Locales['supportedLanguages'] = [
  'deu',
  'eng',
  'jpn',
+ '[language code]',
];
```

### Add language mapping to i18n tool

To make sure we are mapping the language correctly, please add the corresponding
language mapping to `src/utils/i18n/i18n_mapping.js`.

### Add additional build rule

Create a new build rule in the file `build/cwc/locales.js`.

Example for the "deu" translation:

```javascript
/**
 * DEU Translation.
 */
closureBuilder.build({
  name: 'Locales.deu',
  srcs: glob([
    'locales/deu/_deu.js',
    'locales/deu/**/*.js',
  ]),
  externs: [
    'build/externs/locales.js',
  ],
  compress: true,
  options: {
    closure: {
      rewrite_polyfills: false,
    },
  },
  out: 'genfiles/core/js/locales/deu.js',
});
```

### Adjust Blockly translation build rule

Adjust the *Blockly translation* build rule in the file 
`build/external/extra_files.js` to include the new supported language.

Example for the "deu" translation:

```javascript
/**
 * Blockly translation
 */
closureBuilder.build({
  name: 'Blockly language files',
  resources: [
    ...
    BlocklyPath + 'msg/js/de.js',
    ...
  ],
  out: 'genfiles/third_party/external/blockly/msg/',
});
```


Additional language support
----------------------------

Take a look into the `locales/eng/` folder and start translating
the different type of text.

(Skip the deprecated `locales/eng/translation.js` file!)

Please make sure that you only add translated text into this new file.
It also fine to start with a few lines and adding the rest later.

If the new file is ready, create a pull request under the following URL:
<https://github.com/google/coding-with-chrome/pulls>

Translation Key Format
-----------------------

### For i18t(...) and {msg ...}

The translation key has the following format for the `i18t(...)` and `{msg ...}`
implementation:

```text
@@[Group]__[Key] (e.g. @@WELCOME_SCREEN__TITLE)
```

**Group** Most of the translations are defined for one group like
"WELCOME_SCREEN__".

**Key** The key is used to identify the correct translation text like "TITLE".

### Language translation files

All language translation files under `locales/[language]/*.js` using the
following structure:

```javascript
Locales[Language][Group] = {
  'Key': 'Translated text',
  ...
};
```

Example:

```javascript
Locales['deu']['WELCOME_SCREEN'] = {
  'TITLE': 'Willkommen zu Programmieren mit Chrome!',
  'DESCRIPTION': 'Coding with Chrome ist eine pädagogische Entwicklerumgebung',
  ...
};
```

Missing translations
---------------------

If you miss the translation for certain UI parts, please submit pull request to
add them.
All translations are using a KEY for the translation and maybe separates files
like **locales/deu/welcome_screen.js**.

### In JavaScript files

Use the global "i18t" function to add the translation to any text.
Please keep in mind that it could be that some text is already translated by
general functions.

```javascript
  i18t('@@TEST__UNIQUE_TEXT_KEY')
```

#### Variable support

The i18t library also supports variables for dynamic content like:

```javascript
Locales['deu']['WELCOME_SCREEN'] = {
  'HELLO_NAME': 'Willkommen {$user} zu Programmieren mit Chrome!',
  ...
};
```

```javascript
  i18t('@@WELCOME_SCREEN__HELLO_NAME', {'user' : 'Tester'})
```

### In soy files

For soy files, use the {msg desc=""} {/msg} tags to mark any text.
Please keep in mind that it could be that some text is translated by
general functions instead directly.

```javascript
  {msg desc=""}
    @@TEST__UNIQUE_TEXT_KEY
  {/msg}
```
